---
title: Decentralized Model
keywords: Game
last_updated: March 14, 2021
summary: 
sidebar: mydoc_sidebar
permalink: decentralized_model.html
folder: white_paper/occulta_novellia
---

Many blockchain games support asset ownership, including cards, kitties, or gods. These have varying degrees of centralization.

**Some of these have backdoors**
- [High Fees](https://www.reddit.com/r/CryptoKitties/comments/7jyx2q/this_game_is_getting_too_expensive_cancelling_a/)
- [Backdoors](https://medium.com/loom-network/your-crypto-kitty-isnt-forever-why-dapps-aren-t-as-decentralized-as-you-think-871d6acfea)

**Some of these suffer from high transaction fees**
- [Ethereum Network Congestion](https://cryptobriefing.com/fun-games-until-ethereum-gets-congested/)

**Our definition of decentralization requires the following provisions**
- Decentralization can't be the at the cost of absurd fees.
- In-game assets are non-custodial.
- Developers do not have the capacity to devalue in-game assets for profit.
- Developers cannot inflate or print assets for the purpose of eventually selling them.
- Developers cannot fail to support proprietary software that must be supported for assets to have value.
- Developers cannot fail to host data relevant to the game's functioning.
- Developers cannot affect game-logic such that asset devaluation occurs through loss of rarity or significant loss of usefulness. Balancing may be required for **interpretation** of NFT attributes.

**The minimal steps taken towards decentralization are**
- All NFTs are generated by immutable minter contracts, deployed once. Metadata is stored on Cardano.
- Large files such as illustrations of NFT characters are stored on IPFS or similar technology.
- All NFTs are exposed for third-party usage (wallets, games, dApps) via an SDK

**Stretch goals for decentralization are as follows**
- All multiplayer game logic is accessible in a totally decentralized manner and can be run on Cardano using Hydra. This includes non-gameplay elements such as matchmaking.
- Game is fully moddable. Any first-party content is completely replicable using provided modding tools.
- Additional character NFTs or game rule changes are voted on by the community.
- Supported game modes such as modes allowing only certain NFTs are community decided.

